Docs for GM OSS and Istio versions (#1876)
solo-io/gloo-mesh: docs/content/reference/version/_index.md

2.  Review the features that are available in a particular version of the software.
    * Gloo Mesh Enterprise
      * [Version 1.1 with Gloo Mesh Gateway 1.0](https://www.solo.io/blog/gloo-mesh-1-1-and-gloo-mesh-gateway-1-0-in-detail/)
      * [Version 1.0 GA release](https://www.solo.io/blog/a-technical-dive-into-gloo-mesh-ga/)
    * [Istio features](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/feature-stages/)
    * [Kubernetes release notes](https://kubernetes.io/releases/notes/)
3.  Decide if you need to run a [specific image]({{<ref "#download-a-specific-image">}}), such as the FIPS version of Gloo Mesh Istio for FedRAMP compliance.
4.  Follow the [Setup guides]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/" >}}), modifying the steps to install the particular versions that you want to use.

## Supported versions

The following versions of Gloo Mesh Enterprises are supported with the compatible open source projects versions of Istio, Kubernetes, and Helm.

QUESTIONS
* Any others we should explicitly call out???
* (Also cloud providers if we have such info)

> | Gloo Mesh Enterprise | Gloo Mesh Istio`*` | Kubernetes`†` | Helm |

Reviewer: no need to call out helm in this table in my opinion

| -------------------- | ----- | ---------- | ---- |
| 1.1 | 1.7 - 1.11 | 1.16 - 1.22 | >=3.0 | 
| 1.0 | 1.7 - 1.11 | 1.16 - 1.22 | >=3.0 |

{{% notice note %}}

> `*` Gloo Mesh Enterprise offers `n-4` security patching support only with Gloo Mesh Istio versions, not community Istio versions.

Reviewer: Need doc link that explains how to get Gloo Mesh Istio version

{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice note %}}
`†` **Istio and Kubernetes**: Supported Kubernetes versions are based on the version of Istio that is installed. For example, you cannot use Gloo Mesh Enterprise with Istio 1.9 on a Kubernetes 1.22 cluster, because Istio 1.9 does not support Kubernetes 1.22. To review Istio support of Kubernetes versions, see the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/supported-releases/#support-status-of-istio-releases).

**OpenShift and Kubernetes**: The Istio and Kubernetes versions also determines which version of OpenShift you can run. For example, if you have Istio 1.11 you can run OpenShift 4.8, which uses Kubernetes 1.21. To review OpenShift Kubernetes support, see the [OpenShift changelog documentation for the version you want to use](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/release_notes/ocp-4-8-release-notes.html).
{{% /notice %}}

**Do I have to run the same version on my management and remote clusters?**

> Yes, run the same versions of Gloo Mesh Enterprise, Istio, Kubernetes, and Helm in your management and remote clusters. The remote clusters for the data plane can run up to one version behind the management clusters (`n-1`), to give you time to upgrade all of the remote clusters. Do not plan to run different versions on your management and remote clusters for longer than you need to complete the upgrade.

Reviewer: - Istio is not needed on the mgmt cluster
- Istio versions do not need to be the same across remote clusters
- Remove Helm  
- Need to be specific about what software the n-1 statement is talking about. `enterprise-agent` on the remote clusters can be one version behind `enterprise-networking` on the management server.

**How do I upgrade the versions?**

The upgrade process depends on which software you need to upgrade and your infrastructure provider.
* [Gloo Mesh Enterprise]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/upgrading/" >}})
* [Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/upgrade/). You can follow a similar process to upgrade Gloo Mesh Istio, but make sure to specify the `hub` and `tag` values for the Gloo Mesh Istio image that you want to use, such as in the [Install Gloo Mesh Istio guide]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/gloo_mesh_istio/" >}})
* Kubernetes and OpenShift: Consult your infrastructure provider's upgrade process. For example, you might use [Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-cluster.html), [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/cluster-upgrades), [IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-update), or [Microsoft Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/upgrade-cluster).

**What is the difference between Gloo Mesh Istio and community Istio versions? Can I just use the community?**

> Gloo Mesh Istio is a hardened version of the community Istio project, to maintain support for CVEs and other security fixes longer than the community. The features are the same as in the community project, and are not forked or actively developed. No proprietary Gloo Mesh Enterprise features are included in Gloo Mesh Istio.

Reviewer: not sure what's meant by "actively developed"

Reviewer: "No proprietary Gloo Mesh Enterprise features are included in Gloo Mesh Istio."
There's 1.11.1, 1.11.1-fips, 1.11.1-solo, 1.11.1-solo-fips. The solo ones are Istio built with solo envoy filters

After installing Istio, you can verify that the version is compatible with your Kubernetes environment by running `istioctl x precheck`.

```shell
istioctl x precheck

✔ No issues found when checking the cluster. Istio is safe to install or upgrade!
  To get started, check out https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/
```

## Download a specific image

You can download a particular image for Gloo Mesh Istio, such as to use an older version that the community no longer supports while still receiving security patches. You might also want a custom build that aligns with compliance standards such as Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS).

**How can I review these Gloo Mesh Istio images?**

You can review the Istio images from a web browser or your command line.

Web browser:

> 1.  Navigate to the Google Cloud Registry Istio Enterprise images: [https://console.cloud.google.com/gcr/images/istio-enterprise/global/proxyv2](https://console.cloud.google.com/gcr/images/istio-enterprise/global/proxyv2).

Reviewer: Istio uses several images. proxyv2 is just one of them. pilot and operator are a couple more

2.  Click the **Filter** field, select **Tags**, and enter a search term such as a version like `1.11.1` or a specific build like `fips` or `distroless`. You can add multiple filters to your search.
3.  Hover over the row of the image that you want to use and click the **Actions overflow (...) > Show pull command**.

> Command line:

Reviewer: Doubting if we need this command line section

{{% /notice %}}

**Do I have to run the same version on my management and remote clusters?**

Yes, run the same versions of Gloo Mesh Enterprise and Kubernetes in your management and remote clusters. The Gloo Mesh `enterprise-agent` in the remote clusters for the data plane can run up to one version behind the Gloo mesh `enterprise-networking` in the management clusters (`n-1`), to give you time to upgrade all of the remote clusters. Do not plan to run different versions of the enterprise `networking` and `agent` deployments on your management and remote clusters for longer than you need to complete the upgrade.

You do not need to install Istio on the management clusters. Remote clusters can run different versions of Istio. However, if you want to apply policies or other resources that require a certain version of Istio across remote clusters, make sure that the clusters run a supported version.

**How do I upgrade the versions?**

The upgrade process depends on which software you need to upgrade and your infrastructure provider.

> * **Gloo Mesh Enterprise**: See the [Upgrading guide]]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/upgrading/" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Gloo Mesh Enterprise**: See the [Upgrading guide]]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/" >}}).
```

---
title: "Version reference"
description: | 
  Information about supported Gloo Mesh Enterprise versions and related tools such as Istio.
weight: 2
---

Review the following information about supported release versions for Gloo Mesh Enterprise, including dependencies on open source projects like Istio.
## Supported versions

The following versions of Gloo Mesh Enterprises are supported with the compatible open source projects versions of Istio and Kubernetes.

| Gloo Mesh Enterprise | Gloo Mesh Istio`*` | Kubernetes`†` |
| -------------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| 1.1 | 1.7 - 1.11 | 1.16 - 1.22 |
| 1.0 | 1.7 - 1.11 | 1.16 - 1.22 |

{{% notice note %}}

> `*` Gloo Mesh Enterprise offers `n-4` security patching support only with Gloo Mesh Istio versions, not community Istio versions. For more considerations to install Gloo Mesh Istio, see [Download a specific image]({{<ref "#download-a-specific-image">}}).

Reviewer 2: maybe "for more considerations when installing gloo mesh istio"?

Author: ```suggestion
`*` Gloo Mesh Enterprise offers `n-4` security patching support only with Gloo Mesh Istio versions, not community Istio versions. For more considerations when installing Gloo Mesh Istio, see [Download a specific image]({{<ref "#download-a-specific-image">}}).
```

{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice note %}}
`†` **Istio and Kubernetes**: Supported Kubernetes versions are based on the version of Istio that is installed. For example, you cannot use Gloo Mesh Enterprise with Istio 1.9 on a Kubernetes 1.22 cluster, because Istio 1.9 does not support Kubernetes 1.22. To review Istio support of Kubernetes versions, see the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/supported-releases/#support-status-of-istio-releases).

**OpenShift and Kubernetes**: The Istio and Kubernetes versions also determines which version of OpenShift you can run. For example, if you have Istio 1.11 you can run OpenShift 4.8, which uses Kubernetes 1.21. To review OpenShift Kubernetes support, see the [OpenShift changelog documentation for the version you want to use](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/release_notes/ocp-4-8-release-notes.html).
{{% /notice %}}

### Version skew policy for management and remote clusters

> Ideally, run the same versions of Gloo Mesh Enterprise and Kubernetes in your management and remote clusters. The Gloo Mesh `enterprise-agent` in the remote clusters for the data plane can run up to one version behind the Gloo mesh `enterprise-networking` in the management clusters (`n-1`), to give you time to upgrade all of the remote clusters. Do not plan to run different versions of the enterprise `networking` and `agent` deployments on your management and remote clusters for longer than you need to complete the upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ideally, run the same versions of Gloo Mesh Enterprise and Kubernetes in your management and remote clusters. To give you time to upgrade all of the remote clusters, the Gloo Mesh `enterprise-agent` in the remote clusters can run up to one version behind the Gloo mesh `enterprise-networking` in the management clusters (`n-1`). Do not plan to run different versions of the enterprise `networking` and `agent` deployments on your management and remote clusters for longer than you need to complete the upgrade.
```

You do not need to install Istio on the management clusters. Remote clusters can run different versions of Istio. However, if you want to apply policies or other resources that require a certain version of Istio across remote clusters, make sure that the clusters run a supported version.

### Upgrading versions

The upgrade process depends on which software you need to upgrade and your infrastructure provider.

> * **Gloo Mesh Enterprise**: See the [Upgrading guide]]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Gloo Mesh Enterprise**: See the [Upgrading guide]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/" >}}).
```

> * **Istio**: See the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/upgrade/). You can follow a similar process to upgrade Gloo Mesh Istio, but make sure to specify the `hub` and `tag` values for the Gloo Mesh Istio image that you want to use, such as in the [Install Gloo Mesh Istio guide]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/gloo_mesh_istio/" >}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Istio**: See the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/upgrade/). You can follow a similar process to upgrade Gloo Mesh Istio, but make sure to specify the `hub` and `tag` values for the Gloo Mesh Istio image that you want to use, such as in the [Install Gloo Mesh Istio guide]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/gloo_mesh_istio/" >}}).
```

* **Kubernetes or OpenShift**: Consult your infrastructure provider's upgrade process. For example, you might use [Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-cluster.html), [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/cluster-upgrades), [IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-update), or [Microsoft Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/upgrade-cluster).

### Understanding the difference between Gloo Mesh Istio and community Istio distributions

Gloo Mesh Istio is a hardened Istio enterprise image to maintain `n-4` support for CVEs and other security fixes longer than the community Istio, which provides `n-1` support with an additional 6 weeks of extended time to upgrade the `n-2` version to `n-1`. Solo provides two main distributions for Gloo Mesh Istio as follows.

> * **Standard**: An enterprise distribution of the community Istio project with additional security patches.

Reviewer 2: is there any guidance on when users should use which? like why would i use standard when solo provides extra security

Author: When I asked, it seems like it's either more if they're open source purists or if they aren't using the extra filters or addons like GMG.

Reviewer: Both are secure. Solo version has extra features that users might not want

* **FIPS**: An image that is tagged with `fips` complies with NIST FIPS, for use cases that require federal information processing capabilities.
* **Distroless**: An image that is tagged with `distroless` is a slimmed down distribution with the minimum set of binary dependencies to run the image, for enhanced performance and security. Note that if your app relies on package management, shell, or other operating system tools such as `pip`, `apt`, `ls`, `grep`, or `bash`, you must find another way to install these dependencies.

An image might be tagged to meet multiple use cases, such as `1.11.1-solo-fips-distroless`.

To use a version of Istio that is no longer supported by the community with Gloo Mesh Enterprise, you must [install the Gloo Mesh Istio version]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/gloo_mesh_istio/" >}}). If the Istio version that you want to use is currently supported by the community, you can use either the community Istio or the Gloo Mesh Istio version. To review supported community versions, see the [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/supported-releases/).

## Download a specific image

> You can download a particular image for Gloo Mesh Enterprise and Gloo Mesh Istio. You might need to download and transfer these images if your environment does not have public network access or cannot pull public images, for an air-gapped installation. You might also want to use an older Istio version that the community no longer supports while still receiving security patches. You might also want a custom build that aligns with compliance standards such as Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS).

Reviewer 2: maybe just a bulleted list of use cases instead of several "You might also" in a row?

Author: ```suggestion
You can download a particular image for Gloo Mesh Enterprise and Gloo Mesh Istio, such as for the following use cases. 
* To download and transfer these images if your environment does not have public network access or cannot pull public images, for an air-gapped installation.
* To run an older Istio version that the community no longer supports while still receiving security patches.
* To use a custom build that aligns with compliance standards such as Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS).
```

### Get the Gloo Mesh Enterprise version that you want to use
1.  Find the version tag in the [changelog]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/changelog/enterprise/" >}}), such as `v1.1.2`.
2.  To download the package for the `enterprise-networking` component that you deploy in your management clusters, append the `<version_tag>` to the following URL.
    ```
    https://storage.googleapis.com/gloo-mesh-enterprise/gloo-mesh-enterprise-<version_tag>
    ```
3.  To download the package for the `enterprise-agent` component that you deploy in your remote data plane clusters, append the `<version_tag>` to the following URL.
    ```
    https://storage.googleapis.com/gloo-mesh-enterprise/gloo-mesh-enterprise/enterprise-agent/enterprise-agent-<version_tag>
    ```

> 4.  Use these packages when you [install Gloo Mesh Enterprise]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/installation/enterprise_installation/" >}}).

Author: Yes, I think there are env var you can set in the install commands now to change versions, but I guess like if they had to download these, transfer them to a USB or media, and then load them on their server in the airgap env, it might be a bit diff than what's in the install guide now to change the version.
